---
layout: mainpost
projectname: Renaissance Suite
title:  "Renaissance 0.15 Released"
author: Lubomír Bulej
---

We are pleased to announce a new release of the Renaissance benchmark suite.
This release is primarily aimed at improving compatibility with Java 21 (LTS)
and Java 22 (EA), but it also marks the departure from Java 8 by requiring at
least Java 11 to build the suite and to run the benchmarks. Several benchmarks
now use Scala 3 and a memory leak was plugged in one of the benchmarks.

To improve compatibility with Java 21, the Apache Spark framework used by the
`apache-spark` benchmarks was updated to version 3.5.0 and the Neo4j framework
used by the `neo4j-analytics` benchmark was updated to version 5.12.0 (the 
benchmark now requires Java 17 to run). The database libraries used in the
`db-shootout` benchmark were updated to more recent versions, which makes the
benchmark compatible with Java 18 (while still far from Java 21, it is an
improvement over Java 11, where the benchmark was stuck for some time).

The Scala 2.12 and 2.13 versions used by various benchmarks were updated to
versions 2.12.18 and 2.13.12, respectively. The `akka-uct`, `dotty`, and 
`scala-kmeans` are now using Scala 3.3.1, and the `neo4j-analytics` benchmark
now uses Scala 2.13. This leaves only the `philosophers`, `reactors` and
`stala-stm-bench7` benchmarks in the Scala 2.12 camp.

Even though the source code of most benchmarks remains unchanged (apart from
bug fixes and changes due to library APIs), the actual code executed at runtime
may be affected by the dependency updates.

Other changes include a fix for a memory leak in the `reactors` benchmark, and
two fixes that improve compatibility with JMH.

See the pull requests referenced in the [GitHub release](https://github.com/renaissance-benchmarks/renaissance/releases/tag/v0.15.0) for more details.


Any comments and contributions are welcome.

Happy benchmarking!

