---
layout: mainpost
projectname: Renaissance Suite
title:  "Renaissance 0.16 Released"
author: Lubomír Bulej
---

We are pleased to announce a new release of the Renaissance benchmark
suite. This release adds result validation to several benchmarks, improves
compatibility with current Java releases, and updates numerous underlying
frameworks and libraries.

Validation was improved or added to the following 7 workloads: `als`,
`fj-kmeans`, `future-genetic`, `gauss-mix`, `log-regression`, `movie-lens`,
and `philosophers`, bringing Renaissance closer to having fully validated
workloads (there are still 4 missing).

Issues related to the Hadoop Client API library (which plagued the Apache
Spark benchmarks) and the Chronicle Map library (which plagued the `db-shootout`
benchmark) were resolved. As a result, all benchmarks in this release (with the
exception of `neo4j-analytics` which requires at least version 17 to run), run
on LTS versions from 11 to 21 as well as on early access version of Java 24.

The `philosophers` and `scala-stm-bench7` benchmarks were migrated to Scala 3,
continuing the migration towards more recent Scala versions. The `reactors`
benchmark is the last to require Scala 2.12.

Even though the source code of most benchmarks remains unchanged, the actual
code executed at runtime may be affected by the dependency updates, resulting
in different performance. Apart from the indirect impact of library updates,
the performance of the `future-genetic`, `gauss-mix`, `movie-lens`, and
`philosophers` benchmarks is known to differ from the previous release due
to benchmark changes.

See the [GitHub release](https://github.com/renaissance-benchmarks/renaissance/releases/tag/v0.16.0) for more details.


Any comments and contributions are welcome.

Happy benchmarking!

